# Data Sources for "IUU Fishing Risk-Assessment Tool"

This directory contains the data sets we are using as part of Fish Hackathon
2018 project number 3, the "IUU Fishing Risk-Assessment Tool", described in more
detail in
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Rv7dmlvJyXxqkDgcvh8iG2kVPKzJ7Ee5TgG4ddDJi9U/preview#heading=h.wmy342vpnp9c

Description of the project copied [here](PROJECT-DESCRIPTION.md) from the google
doc for convenience.

## Data Source Types

The ["resources" section](PROJECT-DESCRIPTION.md#Resources) of our project
provides links to some kinds of data, listed below, in addition to other
datasets we found that might be useful.

### Risks Datasets

#### Overview From Project

There are datasets of the various ‘bad’ activities. This can include estimated
levels of illegal fishing (http://hckrn.st/2zYcXoM), number of apprehended
illegal vessels, recorded instances of human rights abuses (PDF:
http://hckrn.st/2zZ3r56), indexes of corruption, and much more. Such data are
not prepared on a standard basis and are not designed for use by individual
decision makers. We are in the process of collecting and aggregating this type
of data for use, but can for now provide one dataset for practice purposes
(Google Sheet: http://hckrn.st/2jGy8Rv).

#### Details of Links

- [Estimating the Worldwide Extent of Illegal Fishing](http://hckrn.st/2zYcXoM):
  PDF of an academic looking paper written by the Division of Biology at the
  Imperial College of London.  Not machine readable, but possibly provides good
  background information, and perhaps the data sources they used are machine
  readable.
- [TRAFFICKED: Human Rights Abuses in the Seafood
  Industry](http://hckrn.st/2zZ3r56):
  A PDF brochure from "FishWise", a non profit marine conservation organization.
  It's also not very machine readable, but probably provides good background and
  references data sets we could use.
- [CPI2016_FullDataSetWithRegionalTables.xlsx](http://hckrn.st/2jGy8Rv): The
  2016 Corruption Perceptions Index by Transparency International.  It's a
  ordered ranking, broken down by country, but it looks like it factors in a lot
  of different measurements, not all of them related to fishing.  See
  [CPI2016_COLUMN_BREAKDOWN](CPI2016_COLUMN_BREAKDOWN.md).

### Species Datasets

#### Overview From Project

A second dataset including a list of species names and volumes sourced by a
company (species name, catch location, volume caught, supplier name, vessel
name, etc.) (http://hckrn.st/2AE8kjh). You can also check out the list of
companies part of the Ocean Disclosure Project (http://hckrn.st/2iFNF7F).

#### Details of Links

- [Marks and Spencer Fish and Shellfish Performance
  Summary](http://hckrn.st/2AE8kjh): Looks like a summary of how Marks and
  Spencer gets their fish to show that they're sustatainable.  More like a
  corporate summary than a raw dataset.
- [Ocean Disclosure Project Company List](http://hckrn.st/2iFNF7F): This has a
  list of fisheries for each company, in a regular format, with locations, with
  fishing methods, "Certification or FIP", Stock Status and Management, and
  notes, all focused on sustainability.

### Ram Legacy Dataset

#### Overview From Project

Ram Legacy dataset (http://hckrn.st/2EXPfr1), which is a compilation of stock
assessment results for commercially exploited marine populations from around the
world.

#### Overview From Website

The RAM Legacy Stock Assessment Database is a compilation of stock assessment
results for commercially exploited marine populations from around the world. It
is inspired by Dr. Ransom A. Myers' original stock-recruitment database, which
is no longer being updated.

#### Details of Links

TODO

### EDF Dataset

TODO: http://seafood.edf.org/
